---
title: '2025 Retrospective'
description: 'I wrote no blogs this year'
date: '2025-11-03'
---

It's getting close to the end of the year so I thought I might as well write out my yearly retrospective. It's incredible to see the major drop off in the number of blog posts I wrote this year compared to the last year.

The main reason is that I stopped working on my little hobby graphics engine. I had a huge burst of motivation to work on it in 2024 because I failed a graphics programming job interview due to a lack of knowledge. I learned a bunch working on that engine and I'm happy I was able to fill some gaps in my knowledge.

Towards the end of [my last retrospective](https://matek.dev/blog/2024-review/), I mentioned that I was porting one of our games to Unity as a proof of concept. The prototyping was going pretty well but the team insisted on sticking with s&box. For reasons I can't get into, this was by far the best decision. The huge complaints I had about s&box in 2024 are a thing of the past. I have full faith in Facepunch and s&box's future.

## My Summer Cottage

We finally have a steam page which you can visit [here](https://store.steampowered.com/app/3115420/My_Summer_Cottage/). I have been absolutely grinding hard on this project since February. I've programmed a large portion of the game so far and I'm extremely proud of how it's turning out. The team is really banding together and producing some incredible work. I'll have a lot more to share about the game in 2026 once we are closer to releasing our demo.

## Autodesk

I have been at Autodesk for almost a full year now. I wish I could speak a bit more about what I'm actually working on. It does make me miss my open source days at NVIDIA a bit, which allowed me to share a lot more about what I was working on. All I can say is that I'm working on some great features in AutoCAD that'll hopefully improve the experience for a lot of users.

## 2026

As we begin to start building out our demo for My Summer Cottage, I have a feeling I'll get the chance to write more blogs regarding the development process. We'll need to do some developer blogs for marketing purposes, so I'll be able to cross post those here as well.

I hope to continue learning and growing at Autodesk as well. I'm excited to see what 2026 has in store!

<YoutubeMusic src="btYtpYxCung" />
